## How did I get here

I was an enthusiastic yet, unfocused child with big dreams. Early on career plan A was professional athlete and plan B was politician.

My parents come from interesting families. My dad was raised in new Hampshire by Dutch immigrants Jos a country doctor, and Wil a social worker. Whil's, her father was a mayor during WWII and they helped organize an underground network that harbored Jewish refugees and resisted the German occupation. My mom was raised in the midwest by an university opera coaching duo, Bob the pianist and linguist, Lucile the former singer turned voice coach. Lucile's father was a mayor of her town and he was the first man to bring bananas to lake saint Jean. He placed an entire stalk of bananas outside his home, and invited the village to indulged these exotic fruits, it was an all day affair.

As a kid I loved sports, team sports, extreme sports, watch em, play em, analyze em. I was born in Chicago Illinois in 1991, the year Michael Jordan one his first championship with the Chicago Bulls, so obviously I thought that meant I was destined for athletic greatness. With most sports, I could quickly grasp the fundamentals and during each season I would practice hard and make big improvements. But, at the end of each season on it was onto the next one. I didn't understand that I needed focus on one sport to really excel, also I was young for my grade and to put it nicely, I was not blessed with a high density of fast-twitch muscle fiber.

I have always loved learning but until college I detested school. In high school I would give all of my attention and participate during class I was awake for. I could not follow through outside of class, because of all the time was dedicating to was practicing to be a professional athlete. By the end of high school my dreams of playing professional sports were on life support, so I had to get my grades up and get into a decent college. Despite my reluctance to apply and slightly above mediocre grades, the support of my parents and my decent test scores enabled me to luck into a really good school, SUNY ESF.

At ESF I enrolled in environmental policy, and walked-on to the soccer team. Soccer was challenging, I was the worst player to make the team. At first classes were fun, filled with lively debates and thought provoking lectures, but, the all turned into echo chambers for environmentalist and semi-revolutionists. After my first semester I realized two big things, 1) that to be a politician I would probably need to get wealthy, and powerful, besides being a long shot, it would involve some moral compromises that I wasn't prepared for and 2) it was not clear to me why certain environmental problems were worth solving nor if the solutions being posed were feasible or effective. So rather than push policy, I decided I wanted to work on producing research that would inform policy. 

The next semester, I took classes thought by a great late career professor named Charlie Hall. Dr. Hall was a very interesting person, his dress shirts were perpetually half tucked, he was a bull in a china shop, the biggest personality in the room, and had cold-war grade bull-shit detector, he would interrupt a priest during a sermon if he didn't have his facts straight. Charlie started as a systems ecologist studying fish but later applied ecological principles to study the economy. Energy was his big focus, specifically how net energy, or the energy return per unit of energy invested affect human society. Charlies stated final career milestone was to end neoclassical economics. Why, the central model of neoclassical economics does not consider energy and materials as factors of production, wealth can be generated out of thin air. Needless to say I was inspired by Dr. Hall and decided I was going to study biophysical economics and become a college professor and change the world. I understood that success in life was about who you knew and what they thought of you, so I worked really hard in Charlie's classes.

By the end of undergrad with the help of my motivation to be great, my soccer teammates and Dr. Hall, I learned how to focus and dedicate myself to a craft. I started by practicing soccer everyday, through the offseason of my junior year heading into my senior year. This involved playing pickup soccer with in my hometown 3 days a week and training ball skills the other 3-4 days a week. My skills improved massively, and my senior year I was competing for playing time logging about 30 minutes a game. That season we were national semifinalists.

At this same time I translated my newfound skill of focus towards ecosystem modeling and systems ecology in Dr. Halls classes. I also decided to slow down my degree, take an extra semester, play soccer one more year, and get a summer job as a research technician on a willow biomass project. The decision to slow down my degree was great for me because it allowed me more time to focus on meaningful experiences I played a soccer, and worked on the willow biomass project, work on a manuscript for a peer reviewed paper, be a teaching assistant, all while getting straight A's my final three semesters.

When I finished college, I had dreams of being a surf and turf bum, I would move to California surf during the day, play in soccer leagues at night, while I saved money for grad school. Instead I tore my ACL in an indoor league in January, my dilutional professional sports dreams were crushed again. So back to plan B, I took a train and bike trip around the country and visited the recently retired Charlie Hall and his wife Myrna Hall in Montana. During the visit Charlie and I would work on finishing a stream energetics paper that a handful of other former students were working on. The evening I arrived we had a lovely dinner on their deck and mulled over my career goals and options. I told Charlie, I wanted to be a professor. He leaned in looked me in the eye and said "I don't know if your tough enough, people will try to tear you down, can you handle that?". I felt the heat, but I said I thought I could do it.

We retired to the living room. Charlie sat in recliner-computer-desk to check email. A few minutes later Charlie gasps, "Adrian do you want to move to Louisiana?". "Uhhm, yea?!" I inquired. I didn't realize it yet, but as soon as I said yes, I had landed a Job working with the legendary John Day.

I quickly interviewed with John over the phone. The project involved modeling impacts of changing oil prices on the costs of coastal marsh restoration. Cool! I got the job, there were no other candidates. This was a dream project, for me, a perfect blend of energy, ecosystems and environmental policy.
